{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0\stshfdbch0\stshfloch0\stshfhich0\stshfbi0\deflang3082\deflangfe3082{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f36\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604030504040204}Tahoma;}
{\f37\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604030504040204}Verdana;}{\f38\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f39\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f41\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}
{\f42\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f43\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f44\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f45\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}
{\f46\froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese);}{\f398\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Tahoma CE;}{\f399\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Tahoma Cyr;}{\f401\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Tahoma Greek;}{\f402\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Tahoma Tur;}
{\f403\fswiss\fcharset177\fprq2 Tahoma (Hebrew);}{\f404\fswiss\fcharset178\fprq2 Tahoma (Arabic);}{\f405\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Tahoma Baltic;}{\f406\fswiss\fcharset163\fprq2 Tahoma (Vietnamese);}{\f407\fswiss\fcharset222\fprq2 Tahoma (Thai);}
{\f408\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Verdana CE;}{\f409\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Verdana Cyr;}{\f411\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Verdana Greek;}{\f412\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Verdana Tur;}{\f415\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Verdana Baltic;}
{\f416\fswiss\fcharset163\fprq2 Verdana (Vietnamese);}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;
\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;\red254\green250\blue235;}{\stylesheet{
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang3082\langfe3082\cgrid\langnp3082\langfenp3082 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive \ssemihidden Default Paragraph Font;}{\*
\ts11\tsrowd\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\trcbpat1\trcfpat1\tscellwidthfts0\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\langnp1024\langfenp1024 \snext11 \ssemihidden Normal Table;}{\*\cs15 \additive \ul\cf2 \sbasedon10 \styrsid6113534 Hyperlink;}{
\s16\ql \li675\ri525\sb150\sa150\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin525\lin675\itap0 \fs19\lang3082\langfe3082\cgrid\langnp3082\langfenp3082 \sbasedon0 \snext16 \styrsid6113534 Normal (Web);}{\*\cs17 \additive \sbasedon10 \styrsid6113534 
postbody1;}}{\*\latentstyles\lsdstimax156\lsdlockeddef0}{\*\pgptbl {\pgp\ipgp0\itap0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0}}{\*\rsidtbl \rsid6113534\rsid9520899\rsid10102396}{\*\generator Microsoft Word 11.0.6568;}{\info
{\title Examen de ingl\'e9s a\'f1o 2007 Cuerpo TIC Grupo A}{\author *}{\operator *}{\creatim\yr2007\mo7\dy26\hr20\min52}{\revtim\yr2007\mo7\dy26\hr20\min55}{\version1}{\edmins3}{\nofpages3}{\nofwords1379}{\nofchars7585}{\*\company Dark}{\nofcharsws8947}
{\vern24579}}\paperw11906\paperh16838\margl1701\margr1701\margt1417\margb1417 \deftab708\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\hyphhotz425\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace180\dgvspace180\dghorigin1701
\dgvorigin1417\dghshow1\dgvshow1\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule\nobrkwrptbl\snaptogridincell\allowfieldendsel\wrppunct
\asianbrkrule\rsidroot6113534\newtblstyruls\nogrowautofit \fet0\sectd \linex0\headery708\footery708\colsx708\endnhere\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl\sftnbj {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2
\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang 
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang3082\langfe3082\cgrid\langnp3082\langfenp3082 {\insrsid6113534 Examen de ingl\'e9s a\'f1o 2007 Cuerpo TIC Grupo A}{\insrsid9520899 

\par }{\insrsid6113534 
\par Es aproximado, en el examen no aparec\'edan direcciones IP
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s16\ql \li675\ri525\sb150\sa150\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin525\lin675\itap0\pararsid6113534 \cbpat17 \fs19\lang3082\langfe3082\cgrid\langnp3082\langfenp3082 {\f36\lang2057\langfe3082\langnp2057\insrsid6113534 
{\*\bkmkstart content}2.2.3. Network disruption}{\lang2057\langfe3082\langnp2057\insrsid6113534\charrsid6113534 {\*\bkmkend content}
\par }{\f36\lang2057\langfe3082\langnp2057\insrsid6113534 
Networks are now largely digitised and controlled by computers. In the past a common reason for network disruption was a failure in the computer system that controls the network and attacks on networks were mainly directed towards
 these computers. Nowadays, the most disrupting attacks tend to exploit the weaknesses and vulnerabilities of network components (operating systems, routers, switches, name servers, etc.).}{\lang2057\langfe3082\langnp2057\insrsid6113534\charrsid6113534 

\par }{\f36\lang2057\langfe3082\langnp2057\insrsid6113534 Whilst disruptive attacks on the telephone system have not been a m
ajor concern in the past, attacks on the Internet are quite common. This is due to the fact that telephone control signals are separated from traffic and can be protected whereas the Internet allows users to reach the key management computers. However, th
e telephone network may become more vulnerable in future as it will integrate key elements of the Internet and its control plan will be opened to others.}{\lang2057\langfe3082\langnp2057\insrsid6113534\charrsid6113534 
\par }{\f36\lang2057\langfe3082\langnp2057\insrsid6113534 Attacks may take various forms:}{\lang2057\langfe3082\langnp2057\insrsid6113534\charrsid6113534 
\par }{\f36\lang2057\langfe3082\langnp2057\insrsid6113534 | | Name server attacks: The Internet depends on the operation of the D
omain Name System (DNS) through which user-friendly names (e.g. europa.eu.int) are translated into abstract network addresses (e.g. IP n\'b0
 147.67.36.16) and vice versa. If part of the DNS fails, some web sites cannot be located and email delivery systems ma
y stop working. Corruption at the level of DNS root servers or other top level name servers could lead to widespread disruption. Earlier this year some vulnerabilities were discovered in the software on which most name servers operate }{
\lang2057\langfe3082\langnp2057\insrsid6113534\charrsid6113534 
\par }{\f36\lang2057\langfe3082\langnp2057\insrsid6113534 | | Routing attacks:
 Routing in the Internet is highly decentralised. Each router periodically informs neighbouring routers about which networks it knows and how to reach them. The weakness is that this information cannot be verified because, by design, each router's knowled
ge of network topology is minimal. In consequence, any router can represent itself as a best path to any destination as a way of intercepting, blocking or modifying traffic to that destination.}{
\lang2057\langfe3082\langnp2057\insrsid6113534\charrsid6113534 
\par }{\f36\lang2057\langfe3082\langnp2057\insrsid6113534 | | Flooding and denial of service attacks: These forms of atta
ck disrupt the network by overloading it with artificial messages which deny or reduce legitimate access. It is similar to fax machines being blocked by long and repeated messages. Flooding attacks attempt to overload web servers or the handling capacity 
of Internet Service Providers (ISPs) with automatically generated messages.}{\lang2057\langfe3082\langnp2057\insrsid6113534\charrsid6113534 
\par }{\f36\lang2057\langfe3082\langnp2057\insrsid6113534 Potential damage - Interruptions have been damaging for certain high-profile websites. Some studies have calculated several hundreds of millions of Euro of damage from a recent atta
ck, in addition to the intangible damage to reputation. Increasingly companies rely on the availability of their websites for their business and those companies that depend on it for 'just in time' supply are particularly vulnerable.}{
\lang2057\langfe3082\langnp2057\insrsid6113534\charrsid6113534 
\par }{\f36\lang2057\langfe3082\langnp2057\insrsid6113534 Potential solutions - 
Attacks on DNS servers are, in principle, easily dealt with by extending the DNS protocols, for example using secure DNS extensions based on public key cryptography. However, this involves installing new software on client machines and has not been widely
 deployed. Also, the administrative process required to enhance the trust between DNS domains needs to become more effective.}{\lang2057\langfe3082\langnp2057\insrsid6113534\charrsid6113534 
\par }{\f36\lang2057\langfe3082\langnp2057\insrsid6113534 Attacks on the routing system are much harder to defend. The Internet was designed to maximise flexibility in routing as this reduc
es the probability of service being lost if one part of the network infrastructure breaks down. No effective means exist to secure routing protocols, especially on backbone routers.}{\lang2057\langfe3082\langnp2057\insrsid6113534\charrsid6113534 
\par }{\f36\lang2057\langfe3082\langnp2057\insrsid6113534 The volume of data transmitted does not allow for detailed filtering as su
ch verification would bring the networks to a halt. For that reason only basic filtering and access control functions are performed by the networks, whereas more specific security functions (e.g. authentication, integrity, encryption) are placed at the bo
undaries of the networks i.e. on the terminals and network servers that act as end points.}{\lang2057\langfe3082\langnp2057\insrsid6113534\charrsid6113534 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid6113534 \fs24\lang3082\langfe3082\cgrid\langnp3082\langfenp3082 {\cs17\f37\fs18\lang2057\langfe3082\langnp2057\insrsid6113534 \~}{
\lang2057\langfe3082\langnp2057\insrsid6113534\charrsid6113534 
\par }{\cs17\f37\fs18\lang2057\langfe3082\langnp2057\insrsid6113534 \~}{\lang2057\langfe3082\langnp2057\insrsid6113534\charrsid6113534 
\par }{\cs17\f37\fs18\insrsid6113534 y traducido:}{\insrsid6113534 
\par }{\cs17\f37\fs18\insrsid6113534 \~}{\insrsid6113534 
\par }{\cs17\f37\fs18\insrsid6113534 2.2.3. Perturbaci\'f3n de las redes }{\f37\fs18\insrsid6113534 \line }{\cs17\f37\fs18\insrsid6113534 Actualmente las redes se encuentran ampliamente digitalizadas y controladas por ordenadores. En el pasado la raz\'f3
n de perturbaci\'f3n de la red m\'e1s frecuente era un fallo en el sistema inform\'e1tico que controla la red y los ataques a las redes estaban dirigidos principalmente a dichos ordenadores. En la actualidad, los ataques m\'e1
s peligrosos suelen cebarse en los puntos d\'e9biles y m\'e1s vulnerables de los componentes de las redes (sistemas operativos, encaminadores, conmutadores, servidores de nombres de dominio, etc.) }{\f37\fs18\insrsid6113534 \line \line }{
\cs17\f37\fs18\insrsid6113534 Si bien los ataques al sistema telef\'f3nico no han constituido una gran preocupaci\'f3n en el pasado, los ataques a Internet se han hecho bastante frecuentes. Esto se debe al hecho de que las se\'f1ales de control telef\'f3
nicas est\'e1n separadas del tr\'e1fico y pueden ser protegidas, mientras que Internet permite a los usuarios acceder a los ordenadores clave de gesti\'f3n. No obstante, la red telef\'f3nica puede hacerse m\'e1
s vulnerables en el futuro en la medida en que pueda integrar elementos clave de Internet y su plan de control est\'e9 abierto a agentes externos. }{\f37\fs18\insrsid6113534 \line \line }{\cs17\f37\fs18\insrsid6113534 
Los ataques pueden ser de varios tipos: }{\f37\fs18\insrsid6113534 \line }{\cs17\f37\fs18\insrsid6113534 _ Ataques contra los se
rvidores de nombres de dominio: Internet depende del funcionamiento del sistema de nombres de dominio (DNS) por medio del cual se traducen direcciones de la red abstractas (por ejemplo, IP n\'b0 147.67.36.16) en nombres comprensibles (por ejemplo, }
{\field\fldedit{\*\fldinst {\cs17\f37\fs18\insrsid6113534  HYPERLINK "https://correoweb.madrid.org/exchweb/bin/redir.asp?URL=http://www.europa.eu.int" \\t "_blank" }}{\fldrslt {\cs15\f37\fs18\ul\cf2\insrsid6113534 www.europa.eu.int}}}{
\cs17\f37\fs18\insrsid6113534 ) y viceversa. Si falla una parte del DNS no se podr\'e1n localizar algunos sitios Web y los sistemas de env\'edo del correo electr\'f3nico podr\'e1n dejar de funcionar. La corrupci\'f3n de los servidores ra\'ed
z DNS u otros servidores de nombres de dominio de nivel superior podr\'eda provocar una perturbaci\'f3n general. A principios del presente a\'f1o, se han descubierto ciertos puntos d\'e9biles en los programas utilizad
os por la mayor parte de los servidores de nombres de dominio. }{\f37\fs18\insrsid6113534 \line \line }{\cs17\f37\fs18\insrsid6113534 _ Ataques contra el sistema de encaminamiento: El encaminamiento en Internet est\'e1
 altamente descentralizado. Cada encaminador informa peri\'f3dicamente a los encaminadores cercanos de las redes que conoce y de la forma de alcanzarlas. El peligro est\'e1 en que estas informaciones no pueden ser verificadas ya que, debido al dise\'f1
o del sistema, el conocimiento que cada encaminador tiene de la topolog\'eda de la red es m\'ednimo. }{\f37\fs18\insrsid6113534 \line }{\cs17\f37\fs18\insrsid6113534 Por consiguiente, cualquier encaminador puede presentarse a s\'ed
 mismo como el mejor camino a un destino determinado con el fin de interceptar, bloquear o modificar el tr\'e1fico a ese destino. }{\f37\fs18\insrsid6113534 \line \line }{\cs17\f37\fs18\insrsid6113534 _ Ataques por saturaci\'f3n y denegaci\'f3
n de servicio: Estas formas de ataque atentan contra la red sobrecarg\'e1ndola con mensajes artificiales que dificultan o impiden el acceso leg\'edtimo. Se podr\'ed
a comparar con el caso de un fax bloqueado por mensajes largos y repetidos. Los ataques por saturaci\'f3n tratan de sobrecargar los servidores Web o la capacida
d de tratamiento de los proveedores de servicios de Internet por medio de mensajes generados autom\'e1ticamente. }{\f37\fs18\insrsid6113534 \line \line }{\cs17\f37\fs18\insrsid6113534 Da\'f1
os potenciales - Las interrupciones han perjudicado a algunos sitios Web prestigiosos. }{\f37\fs18\insrsid6113534 \line }{\cs17\f37\fs18\insrsid6113534 Algunos estudios han estimado en varios cientos de mi
llones de euros el coste de un ataque reciente, sin contar el perjuicio no cuantificable en t\'e9rminos de reputaci\'f3n. Las empresas cuentan cada vez m\'e1
s con la disponibilidad, de su sitio Web para sus negocios, siendo especialmente vulnerables las que dependen de el para el suministro just in time. }{\f37\fs18\insrsid6113534 \line \line }{\cs17\f37\fs18\insrsid6113534 
Soluciones potenciales - Los ataques contra los servidores DNS son en principio f\'e1ciles de combatir si se extienden los protocolos DNS, por ejemplo con ayuda de extensiones DNS seguras basadas en la criptograf\'eda de clave p\'fa
blica. No obstante, ello exige la instalaci\'f3n de nuevos programas inform\'e1ticos en las m\'e1quinas clientes, por lo que a\'fan no est\'e1 suficientemente extendido. Adem\'e1
s, el proceso administrativo necesario para aumentar la confianza entre los dominios DNS debe hacerse m\'e1s eficaz. }{\f37\fs18\insrsid6113534 \line }{\cs17\f37\fs18\insrsid6113534 Los ataques contra el sistema de encaminamiento son mucho m\'e1s dif\'ed
ciles de combatir. Internet ha sido dise\'f1ado para favorecer al m\'e1ximo la flexibilidad de encaminamiento con el fin de reducir la probabilidad de p\'e9rdida de un servicio en caso de fallo de una parte de la infraestructura de la red. No existe ning
\'fan medio eficaz para dar seguridad a los protocolos de encaminamiento, en particular en los encaminadores principales. }{\f37\fs18\insrsid6113534 \line \line }{\cs17\f37\fs18\insrsid6113534 El volumen de los datos transmitidos no permite un 
filtrado pormenorizado, dado que tal verificaci\'f3n llevar\'eda al colapso de la red. Por esta raz\'f3n las redes s\'f3lo incluyen funciones elementales de filtrado y de control de acceso, mientras que las funciones de seguridad m\'e1
s elaboradas (autenticaci\'f3n, integridad, encripci\'f3n, por ejemplo) se sit\'faan en la frontera de las redes, es decir, en las terminales y servidores de las redes que sirven de puntos terminales.}{\insrsid6113534 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\insrsid6113534 
\par }}